We talked about Syria early,
you know,
half the population is displaced.
Yeah.
Uh,
you know,
you're talking about,
12,
13 million people internally displaced or fled,
uh,
you know,
just unimaginable,
unimaginable.
And it's one of the biggest controversies in this country in terms of what to do
when the refugees come of what,
what,
what do you do?
Some countries are taking them in with open arms.
Some countries are not.
And there's a lot of people that are concentrating on the negative aspects of
taking these people into your communicate community.
Um,
what,
what is your,
what is your take on watching all this thing happen?
Why watching all this time I was,
I spent a Friday and Saturday in,
I'm in Houston with a group of Afghan interpreters who had been with in
Afghanistan who got these special immigrant visas and came to America with that,
with their families.
Um,
I cannot think of a better group of people who are contributing to,
to life here.
I mean,
on the Saturday morning they were,
they were running a food bank.
Um,
they've got jobs,
they're paying taxes.
Um,
yeah.
I mean,
I think we should welcome them with open arms.
And I think,
you know,
despite our moral obligation to do that,
I think we would benefit from,
from,
from doing it.
And you know,
we turned away Jewish refugees during World War II.
You'd think we'd learn from that and say never again.
You know,
I mean,
if you're,
if you're an American Christian,
I think Christianity is fairly clear on what to do with refugees.
Yes.
You know?
Um,
so,
so the Viton to,
to not only say no to refugees,
but also to vilify them and say,
oh look,
a lot of them are fighting age males.
Yeah.
Clearly Isis sneaking in.
I mean,
that's a level of,
of viciousness and ignorance that I just,
I just can't fathom the ignorance is,
it's,
it's very pervasive,
right?
It's like,
it's one of these things where we don't,
you don't know,
you're,
you're reading these stories in there.
There's people were telling you these are fighting age males and that we could
very well be letting isis in to our country.
We were very well could be letting in these terrorist cells and allowing them to
come in.
But we also could be letting families in that this is a country that's made of
immigrants.
I mean,
it's one of the weirdest things in this country that this is a country so,
so obsessed with borders and immigration,
but yet it's comprised entirely of immigrants.
Yeah,
there's a great,
um,
do you know,
Gary Young,
the British journalists know,
uh,
he interviews Richard Spencer,
um,
and Richard spent a,
Gary Young I think makes it a very similar point.
And Richard Spencer says,
yeah,
but this country was built by white people.
Um,
you know,
um,
we,
we came up with that.
He said,
no,
no.
It was literally built by black people carry young says,
he says,
yeah,
but only because we told them how to do it and it's on camera.
Gary Young says,
you know what,
I came to see you cause I thought you were the intellectual argument for the,
for supporting Trump.
So I thought I'd might learn something.
Spencer was the heat.
Why do you think that?
I don't know.
But he says,
you're not.
This is just ridiculous.
And he just shuts down the interview,
turns around and walks off and good for him.
I don't know anything about Richard Spencer other than he always gets mentioned
as a white supremacist.
I literally don't know what he stands for,
what he does or what he says,
and they will say he's well dressed and with a nice heck yeah.
This is,
uh,
yeah.
It's just such a crazy subject.
The idea of,
I mean,
it would be nice if the whole world was up to the same standards of health and,
and prosperity and he didn't have to worry about where you could go if the whole
world was essentially like the United States where you could go to where the
good parts were.
You know,
if you live in Detroit and you save up your money,
you can move to Florida or wherever you want to go.
I mean,
you can do that.
This is the beautiful thing about living inside of a country.
Be fantastic.
If the whole world was like that,
you could just kind of go wherever you would prosper and wherever things would
be well.
But this the thing about refugees and other countries where we don't understand
their language or their culture and then you get scared because you hear that
they're Muslims were worried about Muslim terrorists and
it's,
again,
it's one more piece of information that just,
it just overwhelms you.
One more.
One more thing to concentrate on.
There is a difference with Muslims in the Catholic Church and child abuse
scandal.
Did a lot of people say,
oh,
therefore all Christians are suspicious and all Christians are secretly files,
right?
They're just not telling them,
no,
they didn't.
They didn't.
But they do with Muslims.
Well,
it's fear of the unknown.
You know,
it's a lot of it.
The languages and the,
the fact that we're,
you know,
there's also this,
there has to be this feeling that we've invaded their country,
several countries and been there for a long time.
And there's a deep seated resentment that,
you know,
there's the,
the thought of every time you accidentally blow up a wedding party with a drone,
every time you kill civilians,
every,
any times,
any collateral damage,
you're creating untold numbers of people that hate the United States.
You know,
having traveled to most of those countries,
I don't see,
don't see that.
And yesterday I was interviewing the Afghan interpreters and I said,
what do you think about negotiating with the Taliban?
I mean,
in one case,
a good friend of mine called Thrush,
um,
who's,
who's now living in Houston.
I said,
um,
you know,
these guys killed your brother because you are working for the Americans as an
interpreter.
So how do you feel about the Americans now doing a deal with the Taliban?
And what about if the u s leaves and the Taliban finishes off the government and
then comes after your family?
He said,
you know what,
America is not going to let that happen.
America has so much power and knows what to do that they will make sure that any
agreement they reach with the Taliban will be enforceable and it will be safe.
He had so much faith and I mean far more than me.
Why I'm,
and that's,
that's what I hear far more often than,
than the opposite is it,
does that really depend on where you go?
I mean,
cause if you go certain places,
people have a lot of faith in Trump,
you know,
like Donald Trump's going to protect us from evil.
This,
there's places where you go that I may,
it's become a cliche,
but,
but I do think you'll,
you'll find a lot of places as critical of American foreign policy.
That doesn't mean that critical of America.
How do they parse that out?
Um,
I think,
I mean,
Vietnam I think is a good example.
You know,
we,
we have defeated communism.
Communism has been defeated in Vietnam just because the new generation grow up
and think Western culture,
communism.
I know which one I want.
It's a simple choice.
Um,
and I think that young generation is,
is making that very simple choice and it could just mean democracy.
And you think that is in Afghanistan as well.
Yeah.
That they're recognizing that western culture provides more freedom and more
economic opportunity,
more prosperity.
Yeah.
Um,
and I haven't heard,
apart from,
from the Taliban,
I haven't heard much anti American feeling in Afghanistan at all,
really.
Um,
and also a lot of that,
I mean,
maybe I'm biased because a lot of the people I'm talking to had interactions
with,
with Americans.
Um,
but they would even say as many mistakes as were made in the prosecuting of the
war with air strikes and nitrates and all that,
the American soldiers and Marines we met,
we knew were good people.
Um,
and,
and it,
like I said,
with,
with strokes,
my interpreter,
it's,
it's incredible how many people still believe that to this day.